Andrew Danner 21 Sep 2011

This document describes using the batch submission tool qsub on longhorn

The general form is to run
 
 $ qsub scriptname

-------------------
running hello world
-------------------

in the jobscripts directory, we can start with 
longhorn-hello

If you are not you may want to change the -M flag for email notifications and the BINHOME directory to match your setup before running the script

I started with the script at http://www.tacc.utexas.edu/user-services/user-guides/longhorn-user-guide#running , but it doesn't explain a few things I found important, the most confusing being the parallel environment or the -pe flag

For hello world, I just want one process on one node. Another site
https://sites.google.com/site/tacchadoop/home/submit-a-job-request describes the crazy -pe options a bit better

-pe: Specify how many nodes you want to use
    1st argument is number of processes per node (1, 2, 4, or 8)
    2nd argument is number of nodes but expressed in an odd way: in terms of number of processors. Each node has 8 processors, so to request n nodes, you use 8n (e.g. 8=1 node, 32=4 nodes, etc.)

Some concrete examples:

-pe 8way 8   
allocates one node with 8 processes 
1/8th available RAM per process
two dedicated GPUs

-pe 8way 32
allocates four nodes, each with 8 processes (32 total processes)
1/8th available RAM per process on each node
eight dedicated GPUs (two per node)

-pe 4way 16	
allocates two nodes, each with 4 processes (8 total processes)
1/4th available RAM per process on each node
four dedicated GPUs (two per node)

-pe 1way 24	
allocates three nodes, each with 1 process (3 total processes)
all available RAM per process on each node
six dedicated GPUs (two per node)

-pe 1way 8	
allocates one nodes, each with 1 process (1 total processes)
all available RAM per process on each node
two dedicated GPUs (two per node)

the last option "-pe 1way 8" is the magic incantation for a single process on a single node.

some other helpful options that are sparsely documented

-q : the queue name. options on longhorn are normal|long|largemem|development

Queue Name 	Max Runtime 	Max Cores 	Node Pool
normal 	6 hrs 	128 	All nodes
long 	24 hrs 	128 	All nodes
largemem 	8 hrs 	128 	16 large memory nodes
development 	1 hr 	32 	8 nodes
request 	--- 	--- 	special requests

Since hello world should run pretty fast, the development queue is fine

-P : project type. options on longhorn are vis, data, gpgpu, hpc

Type 	Purpose 	Special Environment Modifications
vis 	Visualization jobs 	 
data 	Data Analysis jobs 	 
gpgpu 	GPGPU jobs 	disables X server
hpc 	HPC jobs

data seemed like a fine option here. gpgpu may be needed for CUDA applications

after changing the -M flag and BINHOME, run 

 qsub longhorn-hello 

you should get a log file that displays some metadata about the job followed
by the output of the program "Hello Teragrid!". You should also get notified
via email about the start and end of the job.


